FIND AND IDENTIFY:
(a) relative clauses (1stParagraph: 1 ;  2nd Paragraph 3 ; 3rd Paragraph 1): indicate the NP where each one occurs and its head
(b) declarative content clauses (3rd paragraph 2): indicate the head that licences the content clause


The bicentenary of the Guardian is a cause for celebration and reflection. The paper was born of political outsiders in a country which was run by a landed aristocracy. With its roots in religious dissent and with a desire to spread a developing system of liberal and progressive values, the Guardian has been a political force ever since. It has been a mouthpiece for reform, with a seriousness of purpose and an irreverent eye. The world has changed immeasurably since 1821, but the Guardian has remained steadfastly independent, guided by its commitment to accuracy and fairness.

There is a pressing need for decency and fair-dealing to return to the centre of people’s lives, especially when the Covid-19 pandemic remains out of control in many parts of the globe, after months of an economic slump and deepening political polarisation. All over the world, there are problems that require leaders with greater skills than seem apparent. Too much of politics in recent years has concentrated on goals that are largely irrelevant to human welfare and ignored those things that matter.

In the last decade, the Guardian has experienced both the advantages and disadvantages of technological disruption. From its northern English roots, this organisation has become an international brand, with digital editions of itself in America and Australia. The Guardian is now one of the largest English-language global news websites – and a success that engenders hope. This growth has taken place against a backdrop of a crisis in the media, with standards of evidence and accountability being challenged through social media disinformation campaigns. While the Guardian’s influence and reputation has been enhanced, it is depressing to note that some of the most significant forms of disruptive political communication play out on Twitter and Facebook.
